README.md, before:

# CSV Reader & Auto-Copy Tool

A powerful Windows desktop app that reads CSV and Excel files with automatic clipboard copying and smart navigation.

## ✨ What Does It Do?

This tool helps you work with data files by:
- 📊 Reading CSV and Excel (.xlsx) files
- 🏷️ **Displaying column headers** with each cell value
- 📋 Automatically copying each cell to your clipboard
- ⏭️ Skipping empty cells automatically
- ⌨️ Full keyboard shortcut support
- 🎨 Light and dark theme modes
- 🔄 Smart navigation with Back/Next controls

## 🚀 How to Use

1. **Open the app** - Double-click the CsvReader.exe file
2. **Load your file** - Click "📁 Browse File" and select a CSV or Excel file
3. **Configure headers** - Check "First row is header" if your file has column names
4. **Navigate through cells**:
   - Press **Space**, **→** or **↓** to move forward
   - Press **←** or **↑** to move backward
   - Or use the "Next" and "Back" buttons
5. **Use the data** - Each cell is automatically copied to clipboard
6. **Customize** - Toggle dark mode with the "🌙 Dark" button
7. **Get help** - Press **F1** or click "❓ Help"

## ⌨️ Keyboard Shortcuts

- **Right Arrow / Down Arrow / Space** → Next cell
- **Left Arrow / Up Arrow** → Previous cell
- **F1** → Show help dialog
- **Ctrl+V** → Paste copied value (in any app)

## 📋 Requirements

- Windows 10 or Windows 11
- .NET 9.0 Runtime (download from Microsoft if you don't have it)

## Building from Source

If you want to build the app yourself:

1. Install Visual Studio 2022 with .NET Desktop Development workload
2. Open the project folder
3. Run: `dotnet restore`
4. Run: `dotnet build`
5. Find the exe in `bin/Debug/net7.0-windows/`

Or build a release version:
```
dotnet publish -c Release -r win-x64 --self-contained
```

## ✨ Features

### Core Features
✅ **CSV & Excel Support** - Works with .csv and .xlsx files  
✅ **Header Display** - Shows column names above each cell  
✅ **Automatic Clipboard** - Instant copy on navigation  
✅ **Smart Empty Cell Skip** - Only shows cells with data  
✅ **Bidirectional Navigation** - Move forward and backward  
✅ **Manual Copy** - Click cell to re-copy  

### User Experience
✅ **Keyboard Shortcuts** - Arrow keys, Space, F1  
✅ **Dark Mode** - Easy on the eyes theme toggle  
✅ **Position Tracking** - Always know where you are  
✅ **Help System** - Built-in help dialog  
✅ **Clean Interface** - Distraction-free design  

## 💡 Tips

- **Header rows make it easier!** - Enable "First row is header" to see column names
- The app skips empty cells automatically
- The status bar shows your current position and header name
- Click on the displayed text to re-copy without navigating
- Use keyboard shortcuts for faster workflow
- Toggle dark mode for comfortable viewing in any lighting
- The app works with both CSV and Excel (.xlsx) files seamlessly

## Troubleshooting

**"Error loading CSV file"**  
- Make sure the file is a valid CSV
- Check that the file isn't open in another program

**Clipboard not working**  
- Another program might be using the clipboard
- Try clicking the cell display to copy manually

## 🎯 New in This Version

- ✨ **Header Row Support** - See column names with each value ✅
- 📊 **Excel (.xlsx) Support** - Works with Excel files ⏳ (temporarily disabled - see note below)
- 🎨 **Dark Mode** - Beautiful dark theme toggle ✅
- ⌨️ **Keyboard Shortcuts** - Arrow keys, Space, F1 ✅
- ❓ **Help System** - Built-in help dialog ✅

> **Note:** Excel support is temporarily disabled due to NuGet package download issues. All other features are working perfectly! Excel can be re-enabled once the network issue is resolved. See `UPGRADE_NOTES.md` for details.

## 🔮 Future Enhancements

- Remember last file and position
- Multiple worksheet support for Excel
- Export filtered data
- Custom keyboard shortcuts

## License

This project is open source. Feel free to use and modify it.

Commit message:

Add Jump to Row feature

README.md, after:

# CSV Reader & Auto-Copy Tool

A powerful Windows desktop app that reads CSV and Excel files with automatic clipboard copying and smart navigation.

## ✨ What Does It Do?

This tool helps you work with data files by:
- 📊 Reading CSV and Excel (.xlsx) files
- 🏷️ **Displaying column headers** with each cell value
- 📋 Automatically copying each cell to your clipboard
- ⏭️ Skipping empty cells automatically
- ⌨️ Full keyboard shortcut support
- 🎨 Light and dark theme modes
- 🔄 Smart navigation with Back/Next controls

## 🚀 How to Use

1. **Open the app** - Double-click the CsvReader.exe file
2. **Load your file** - Click "📁 Browse File" and select a CSV or Excel file
3. **Configure headers** - Check "First row is header" if your file has column names
4. **Navigate through cells**:
   - Press **Space**, **→** or **↓** to move forward
   - Press **←** or **↑** to move backward
   - Or use the "Next" and "Back" buttons
5. **Use the data** - Each cell is automatically copied to clipboard
6. **Customize** - Toggle dark mode with the "🌙 Dark" button
7. **Get help** - Press **F1** or click "❓ Help"

## ⌨️ Keyboard Shortcuts

- **Right Arrow / Down Arrow / Space** → Next cell
- **Left Arrow / Up Arrow** → Previous cell
- **F1** → Show help dialog
- **Ctrl+V** → Paste copied value (in any app)

## 📋 Requirements

- Windows 10 or Windows 11
- .NET 9.0 Runtime (download from Microsoft if you don't have it)

## Building from Source

If you want to build the app yourself:

1. Install Visual Studio 2022 with .NET Desktop Development workload
2. Open the project folder
3. Run: `dotnet restore`
4. Run: `dotnet build`
5. Find the exe in `bin/Debug/net7.0-windows/`

Or build a release version:
```
dotnet publish -c Release -r win-x64 --self-contained
```

## ✨ Features

### Core Features
✅ **CSV & Excel Support** - Works with .csv and .xlsx files  
✅ **Header Display** - Shows column names above each cell  
✅ **Automatic Clipboard** - Instant copy on navigation  
✅ **Smart Empty Cell Skip** - Only shows cells with data  
✅ **Bidirectional Navigation** - Move forward and backward  
✅ **Manual Copy** - Click cell to re-copy  

### User Experience
✅ **Keyboard Shortcuts** - Arrow keys, Space, F1  
✅ **Dark Mode** - Easy on the eyes theme toggle  
✅ **Position Tracking** - Always know where you are  
✅ **Help System** - Built-in help dialog  
✅ **Clean Interface** - Distraction-free design  

## 💡 Tips

- **Header rows make it easier!** - Enable "First row is header" to see column names
- The app skips empty cells automatically
- The status bar shows your current position and header name
- Click on the displayed text to re-copy without navigating
- Use keyboard shortcuts for faster workflow
- Toggle dark mode for comfortable viewing in any lighting
- The app works with both CSV and Excel (.xlsx) files seamlessly

## Troubleshooting

**"Error loading CSV file"**  
- Make sure the file is a valid CSV
- Check that the file isn't open in another program

**Clipboard not working**  
- Another program might be using the clipboard
- Try clicking the cell display to copy manually

## 🎯 New in This Version

- ✨ **Header Row Support** - See column names with each value ✅
- 📊 **Excel (.xlsx) Support** - Works with Excel files ✅ **NOW WORKING!**
- 🎨 **Dark Mode** - Beautiful dark theme toggle ✅
- ⌨️ **Keyboard Shortcuts** - Arrow keys, Space, F1 ✅
- 🚀 **Jump to Row** - Navigate directly to any row ✅ **NEW!**
- ❓ **Help System** - Built-in help dialog ✅

> **Note:** Excel support uses **built-in .NET libraries** (no external packages needed!). XLSX files are ZIP archives with XML - we read them natively using System.IO.Compression and System.Xml.Linq.

## 🔮 Future Enhancements

- Remember last file and position
- Multiple worksheet support for Excel
- Export filtered data
- Custom keyboard shortcuts

## License

This project is open source. Feel free to use and modify it.
